# Post Lesson Thoughts (mine)

* We need to change how we schedule this one
  * Spent almost 2 hours on that first one. I felt like everyone was with me, there was a lot of engagement.
  * At some point had to force it to move forward. I felt like that changed the mood of the class (maybe I could have smiled more as I said it).
    Also, at one point, had to remind them that any question we explore cuts into the remaining time for the next two portions, and we're already behind...
    which, of course, is terrible for engagement / experimentation / playing with the ideas (which is what this lesson needs at least at first).
  * When we got to the bindings, lesson got a bit rougher, I think mostly because of the time constraint (which necessitated diverging from the material, so it was also much less polished).
  * SUGGESTION: Break it into two lessons
  * SUGGESTION: Probably don't put intense stuff after it, leave them a little bit of time to let it marinate and play around with it.
* I added a quiz. IDK how that went, I had them do it at home since I ran out of time. I'll ask Rachel to stick in in their end-of-week questionairre.
* I added a cheatsheet. Haven't heard back yet, but I like that they now have one more reference to each of these pieces.
* Would have liked to do something like `String.method(:upcase).bind("abc").call` to illustrate that the method doesn't know its self. But I already dramatically rushed that one.
* This is the first group that realized `main` seems to diverge from the model. That was exciting, but IDK if it was good for them or not. Here are three ways I could see it going:
  1. Might have beeen good to see that the model supports interesting abstractions.
  2. Might be bad because they're just starting to get the model, and all of a sudden things are behaving strangely and voilating the patterns they're working hard to internalize.
  3. Might be good because it finds flaws in their understanding of the object model, and helps them see it in a more robust light.
* I wound up doing bindings ad-hoc due to the time constraint. In this one, I drew the self pointer, which I haven't ever previously drawn. Idk if that was good or bad or confused them more or less or what (really hard to say due to the rush)
* Should probably talk explicitly about return values.
* In "The little book of talent" that I've been reading, they talk about chunking, saying "See the whole thing, break it down into its individual pieces, put it back together again"
  I'm not really sure how to do that without mapping it immediately to real-world code. I would like to have a lot more of that, but can't quite feel what that would mean.
* Some spaced repetition with additional quizzes showing other ways these same ideas manifest would go a long way. Unfortunately, there is no structure for such a thing right now.
  Hopefully when I get [portal](https://github.com/turingschool/portal) more functional.
* The quiz renders markdown in the headers as plain text. But doesn't really matter, if I can get real quiz functionality added to portal, b/c we'll just stop using that thing.
* Some quiz ideas I'd thought of, but didn't have the time to add:
  * Q: What is self in each of these cases?  (self game)
  * Q: Can I access the variable here? (examples of each of the above in places they can / can't be seen)
  * Q: If I call `"hello world".upcase`, where is the upcase method found and how did we locate it?
  * Something with a sophisticated inheritance hierarchy.  Identify the correct class diagram. Identify which method will be found

# Post Lesson Thoughts (students)

Dustin Gault:

> The quiz was helpful for sure.
>
> The lecture was pretty high level, but I think it would have been better in week 1 honestly. I agree that knowing this is very important to programming in Ruby, and having that foundation would have made many of the previous lectures and exercises make more sense. Really, I would ideally have liked an entire day lecture on all of this.
>
> Anyway, thanks for putting in the effort on this one.

Other students said it helped them. I think some, they just found it reassuring because it meant they need to know the core of it,
but not like every manifestation it could ever take.
